---
title: "From Bartender To Nurse"
author: Fionn Knyper
header:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2018-06-09-fionn-knyper/header.jpg
teaser_image_path: /assets/images/posts/2018-06-09-fionn-knyper/teaser.jpg
tags:
  - writer
---

I bartended as soon as I could at 21 years old. It was supposed to be just a short term thing while I figured out how to make money in the music industry. Short term turned into 17 years and I reached a point where I was pretty unhappy most times I worked. I felt like the only way to move up in the service industry was to get into management which I had no interest in. Longer hours and less pay? No thanks!

So, I started thinking about other directions for my life.  I began looking at going back to school and wondering what I could do. I wondered what careers could have solid growth ahead and allow me to feel secure moving forward.  I looked into computer science and nursing, as both seemed to have great outlook for the future.  They were very different paths so I had to go a little deeper in making a decision on what I would like to do professionally.  Computer science seemed to be a way to help shape the future as everything is being changed by computer technology.  On the other hand, as a nurse I could actually help save lives and heal people.  Having had health issues my whole life, I was drawn to learning more about disease processes and helping people deal with their own diseases and injuries.  As I looked into what I would be studying for each career, I found anatomy and physiology more interesting to me than advanced mathematics, so nursing was a little more appealing.  I also felt that I had a built in skill set of dealing with people in the hospitality industry, so that was another benefit.  Finally, I really wanted to have some of the freedom I was used to having when bartending.  The option of being able to work 3 to 4 shifts in a week and still have some time to work on music on the side was the final selling point for me for a career in nursing.

I spent the next 3 years in nursing school for my associates degree in Manhattan.  It was difficult to have such a drastic change in the way I lived my life.  There was hardly any time for social life during the semesters.  I was lucky enough to get some help from family.  That, along with a few loans and grants, I was able to stop working for two years to really focus on school.  I also did some medical volunteering during semester breaks in Asia and South America.  I finished with a 3.88 GPA and won a NY State award for 2 year colleges from the Phi Theta Kappa honor society.  I also got a great externship outside of school at an ICU at Bellevue hospital which was a great experience.  Unfortunately when I graduated, most of the hospitals were only accepting applications from Bachelor level students and Bellevue was on a hiring freeze.  I debated finishing my Bachelor degree online as quickly as possible since I had been accepted to Penn State’s BSN program.  I played with the idea of moving to Colombia for a few months to study more Spanish.  But as I tried to figure out what the best plan was, I got a call from a hospital in Upstate NY who wanted to interview me.  I ended up getting two offers in two different ICU’s and decided to go for it, as critical care was my main interest.

So, I ended up moving to begin my career in a new area with no friends.  It is only 3 hours north of NYC but that was touch to fit in around my nursing schedule. To be honest, this 1.5 years upstate has been very challenging and lonely at times.  I don’t have a group of friends like I have always had in the past.  Nursing itself has also been more difficult than bartending for me. Part of it is that I work nights and going to sleep at 9 am is pretty rough. Also my schedule changes around so sometimes I'll work 3 days on with a 2 day break off and 3 more days on.  So that ends up being 6 out of 8 nights for 13 hours a night or more with only one night off in the middle.  I feel exhausted almost all of the time and I'm still taking classes at Penn State online to finish my bachelors degree. I spend a lot of time alone and that is one thing I miss about bartending...the built in social aspect. I’ve even thought about looking to pick up shifts but haven’t gone that route.

All that being said, I am proud to be helping people and using my brain a lot more. I think my future is bright and the possibilities in healthcare are pretty vast. I'm looking forward to moving back to a major city market where I actually have friends and there is more culture.  I am glad I made the switch but wonder when it will feel a little easier. I wish I had done it all ten years earlier, but I try not to dwell on that. I'm just glad I didn't make it 10 years later!

Overall, moving out of the service industry is a very personal decision.  Some people have a lot of success in it and can continue to be excited working in that environment.  I do miss it sometimes and especially the social side.  The last bar I worked at was like a sort of family and I miss seeing them regularly.  But I needed to move on and find something new.  It is difficult to change your world around as an adult, but I think the struggle can really be worth it. That is what keeps me going every day since I went back to school. I have to sacrifice a bit now, to create a better life for later. Or, hopefully sooner.
